Louise from trade options with me don't
come here welcome to another video I
suppose the reason why you're watching
this video is because you want to sign
up to a broker but you're unsure if you
want to choose a cash or a margin
account if that's the case I have good
news for you after watching this video
you should know which account type is
for you and why with that being said
let's get started right away
so first of what is a margin account in
a margin account you can borrow money
from your broker to trade with so
trading on margin is trading with
borrowed money usually borrowed from
your broker however obviously you can't
borrow all the money to trade with you
have to put up some of your own money as
collateral this collateral is also
referred to as your margin let me give
you an example to open the position you
will have to put up buying power no
matter in which account you want to
trade
so in cash account and in margin account
you need certain buying power to
purchase or to sell assets let's say a
position requires $1,000 to be opened
this could be a stock position for
instance 10 shares of a $100 stock that
will require $1,000 of buying power
right make sense however in a margin
account you won't have to put up the
$1,000 who required to open the position
instead you can put up $500 as margin so
that's your collateral and borrow the
remaining $500 required from your broker
this would mean that you would put up
50% margin to open that trade so instead
of having to put up $1,000 you only have
to put up $500 to open the same position
so in essence all that margarine does is
increase your buying power I think this
is best explained with a concrete
example let's say X Y Z is a stock
that's trading for $100 you decide that
you want to purchase 100 shares of XYZ
so to open that position you would
normally have to put up ten thousand
dollars of buying power one hundred two
times one hundred dollars equals ten
thousand so you have to put up ten
thousand dollars of buying power to open
that position in a cash account he would
have to put up ten thousand dollars of
your own money to open this position
however if you're trading in a margin
account with 50 percent margin you would
only have to put up five thousand
dollars that would be a leverage ratio
of one to two so every dollar that you
put up actually controls two dollars but
what happens if the stock price
increases or decreases let me tell you
that if the stock price increases you
can keep all the gains even though it's
made with the borrowed money you just
have to pay back that money that you
borrowed to your broker usually you also
have to pay interest on the borrowed
money just like with any money that you
borrow however if often these interest
rates don't play a huge role if you
aren't planning on holding a position
for ages but more on that later
so trading on margin can actually
magnify your profits the $5,000 position
in the cash account would lead to less
profits and a $5,000 position in a
margin account but this doesn't only
hold true to the upside if you lose
money it's your problem and not your
brokerage all you have to do is pay back
your broker all the money that you
borrowed from them
in our example I borrowed $5,000 from
your pro crew you put up $5,000 as
margin and the remaining $5,000 required
to open the 100 shares of XYZ we're put
up by your broker so you borrowed $5,000
this means no matter what happens you
have to pay back your broker these
$5,000 so if the position goes against
you you still have to pay them back
$5,000 even though that would lead to a
loss in your account if a position goes
too far against you your broker may
actually require you to put up more
margin or more money as collateral this
is also referred to as a margin call so
if a position goes too far against you
you will receive a margin call this
means you have to either deposit more
money to your broker account close out
other positions or do nothing if you do
nothing your broker will close the
positions for you I hope this example
made it clear how a margin account works
and how margin works therefore let's
move on to a cash account cash accounts
are much simpler you deposit money to
the cash account and that's the money
that you can trade with so if you
deposit $1,000 you have a buying power
of $1,000 if the stock costs $200 per
share then guess what you have to pay
$200 per share pretty simple right so
every dollar that you put up controls
one dollar so nothing fancy here as you
can see cash accounts are much simpler
than modern accounts but does that mean
that they're better than margin accounts
let's answer that question now
now I will list some pros and cons of
both margin and cash accounts let's
start with the pros of margin accounts
first of one big Pro of margin account
is the flexibility in margin accounts
they are very flexible you can trade
almost any strategy that your heart
desires for instance a short selling and
all option strategies are allowed in
margin accounts and this isn't
necessarily the case for cash accounts
but more on that in a few seconds the
next Pro of a margin account is the
increased buying power in margin
accounts you just have more buying power
even though you don't deposit more money
so in margin accounts you have the
ability to purchase more expensive
things than you would in a cash account
nevertheless there are some
disadvantages of margin accounts as well
so let's discuss them now the first
disadvantage is more risk together with
more buying power and thus increased
profit potential also comes an increase
in risk so if you use a lot of leverage
and don't completely know what you're
doing this could be very risky therefore
it's very important that you actually
know what you're doing with that being
said I think no matter in what they
can't your trading you should always
know what you're doing otherwise there's
no point in trading the next
disadvantage of margin accounts is that
they're somewhat complicated you
probably notice throughout this video so
far that margin accounts are much more
complex and complicated than simple cash
accounts so it does take some time and
some thinking to completely understand
how Marjorie worked and how margin
accounts work
another con of margin accounts is that
they require a minimum equity to use
margin privileges you will need to have
a minimum equity amount in your account
the amount that's required to have as
minimum equity depends on the broker but
a common figure is around $2,000 another
disadvantage is that your broker has
control if if your broker thinks that
your position is too risky for them you
will receive a margin call but even if
they give you a few days to answer that
margin call they still have the right to
close that position because you're
trading with their borrowed money so
usually this doesn't happen very often
but it's still a disadvantage to know
that your broker can decide when to
close and when not to close your
positions last but not least you have to
pay interest on the borrowed money the
impact of this really depends on your
trading strategy if you're just planning
on day trading and buying and selling
assets within the same day or within a
few minutes of each other then this
won't be a problem but if you're
planning on buying and holding assets
for years these interest payments can
actually significantly impact your
results the interest rates also depend
on your broker and often the size of
your account also plays role so usually
bigger accounts have to pay lower
interest rates than smaller accounts now
that you've heard the pros and cons of
margin accounts let's move on to the
pros and cons of cash accounts once
again I'll start with the pros the first
Pro is the limited risk in the cash
account you deposit money to a cash
account and that's all you can do is you
can't lose more than the initial
investment
so that's a good thing another good
thing is that they're very simple and
very easy to understand you deposit
money and you can try it with that money
there really isn't much more to it
now let us move on to the disadvantages
of cash accounts the first disadvantage
is that there are quite some limitations
in cash account apart from some
simplifying strategies you can't really
do that much in a cash account for
instance you can't short sell and you
can't trade any advanced option
strategies and in my opinion this is a
pretty big disadvantage so if you're
planning on short selling then don't
even consider a cash account because you
can't do it in it the next pretty
obvious disadvantage is that compared to
a margin account you have much less
buying power $1,000 deposited to a cash
account will allow you to buy less than
$1,000 deposited to a margin account
another disadvantage is that in cash
accounts the money that you trade with
takes time to settle so if you buy
something with money one day you often
have to wait a few days before you can
use that money to trade with again the
time that it takes to settle depends on
the asset that can be quite annoying as
well especially if you're an active
trader so which the current type is best
for you this really depends on your
personal preferences and on your trading
style I can't answer that question if I
don't know that so if you want me to
help you personally just leave a comment
below telling me what your situation is
and I will do my best to help you
however I also want to give you some
examples just to give you an idea of
which account is best for who first off
if you're planning on short selling or
trading slightly more advanced
option strategies with undefined risk or
something like that then it's a
no-brainer you have to take a margin
account you can't trade these strategies
in cash accounts however if you're a
longer term investor and like to buy and
hold assets for long periods of time
I personally actually think that a cash
account might be a better choice for you
the reason why I recommend cash accounts
for longer term investors is mainly that
the interest rates that you have to pay
would probably eat away a lot of your
gains generally if all you're planning
on doing is performing some simple
buying strategies and you don't want
anything complicated the cash account is
totally fine for you but if you are
planning on trading more actively and
maybe doing some slightly more advanced
stuff more shorter term trading then I
think a margin account may be better for
you than a cash account but once again
this really comes down to personal
preferences and to your trading style so
if you need some help just let me know
in the comment section below and I will
try to help you with your decision but
no matter what you do please be sure
that you fully understand all the risks
and you also know what you're doing it
doesn't matter if you're on a cash
account or in a margin account if you
don't know what you're doing you're
gonna lose period before you risk any
money make sure to have an actual
trading plan natural trading strategy
and generally you should have at least
some trading knowledge also note that
you can always change your account type
or open another account later on this
isn't an end all decision you can still
change later on so you can't really go
to wrong
with either of these account types
otherwise I really hope that I could
help you out with your decision and if
not please let me know in the comment
section below how I can assist you
thanks so much for watching I truly hope
you enjoyed my video it would be very
kind of you if you could leave a like if
you enjoyed the video or generally share
your thoughts in the comment section
below once again thanks for watching
you